Pipeline Alerts - Private Preview Docs (#2114)
astronomer/docs: astro/pipeline-alerts.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Pipeline Alerts'
title: 'Set up pipeline alerts (Private Preview)'

> id: pipeline-alerts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: pipeline-alerts
toc_min_heading_level: 2
```
Really annoying Docusaurus bug is that tabs show all topics in the TOC even if you don't have a tab selected. This is the only way to have the TOC make sense. Made some other edits in relation to this.

---

> <head>
>   <meta name="description" content="Set up alerts for your Astro pipelines to be notified in Slack or on PagerDuty if you have a DAG run failure or task duration exceeds a configured time." />
>   <meta name="og:description" content="Set up alerts for your Astro pipelines to be notified in Slack or on PagerDuty if you have a DAG run failure or task duration exceeds a configured time." />
> </head>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We don't need these for private docs (in fact, there's some debate if they help SEO at all)

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::caution

This feature is in [Private Preview](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/feature-previews).

:::

```

Reviewer: Sorry I should really add this to the style guide

> You can configure your Astro pipelines to alert you in Slack or PagerDuty if you have a DAG run failure or if a task duration exceeds a configured time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure your Deployments to alert you in Slack or PagerDuty if you have a DAG run failure or if a task duration exceeds a specified time. 
```

> Follow this guide to set up your communication channel, Slack or PagerDuty, to receive alerts from Astro and then configure your pipeline to send alerts in certain circumstances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow this guide to set up your Slack or PagerDuty to receive alerts from Astro and then configure your Deployment to send alerts in certain circumstances.
```

> :::important
> 
> Task run duration alerts are available with the following software versions Astro Runtime versions 7.1.0 and greater. 
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Actually, this should be:
```suggestion
:::important

Pipeline failure alerts are available with the following software versions Astro Runtime versions 7.1.0 and greater. 

:::
```

## Prerequisites

- An [Astro project](develop-project.md).

> - An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md). Your Deployment must be running Astro Runtime 7.1.0 or later to configure task run duration alerts.
```

Reviewer 2: Task duration alerts are still available for older version of Astro, and the UI will limit users from defining Pipeline alerts on older deployments.
<img width="377" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1336663/231505690-77a12b59-96e0-4f02-b666-8a9304fd7d69.png">

> - Slack workspace and/or PagerDuty Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Slack workspace and/or PagerDuty service.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Configure your communication channel

```

<Tabs
    defaultValue="slack"

>     groupId= "alerts"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    groupId= "step-1-configure-your-communication-channel"
```

    values={[
        {label: 'Slack', value: 'slack'},
        {label: 'PagerDuty', value: 'pagerduty'}
    ]}>
<TabItem value="slack">

> ## Step 1: Make a Slack alert app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To set up alerts in Slack, you need to create a Slack app in your Slack workspace. After you've created your app, you can generate a webhook URL in Slack where Astro will send pipeline alerts. 

Reviewer: Love this sentence summarizing the steps

1. Go to [Slack API: Applications](https://api.slack.com/apps/new) to create a new app in your organization's Slack workspace.

2. Click **From scratch** when prompted to choose how you want to create your app.

3. Enter a name for your app, like `astro-alerts`, choose the Slack workspace where you want Astro to send your alerts, and then click **Create App**.

> :::info
> 
> If you do not have permission to install apps into your Slack workspace, you can still create the app, but you will need to request that an administrator from your organization complete the installation.
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :::info

  If you do not have permission to install apps into your Slack workspace, you can still create the app, but you will need to request that an administrator from your team completes the installation.

  :::
```

> 4. Next, select **Incoming webhooks**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Incoming webhooks**.
```

5. On the **Incoming webhooks** page, click to turn on **Activate Incoming Webhooks**.

6. In the **Webhook URLs for your Workspace** section, click **Add new Webhook to Workspace**. 

> :::info
> 
> If you do not have permission to install apps in your Workspace, you click **Request to Add New Webhook** to send a request to your organization administrator.
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :::info

  If you do not have permission to install apps in your Slack workspace, click **Request to Add New Webhook** to send a request to your organization administrator.

  :::
```

7. Choose the channel where you want to send your Astro alerts and click **Allow**.

8. After your webhook is created, copy the webhook URL from the new entry in the **Webhook URLs for your Workspace** table.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="pagerduty">

> ## Step 1: Create a new integration for PagerDuty 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Create a new integration for PagerDuty 
```

Author: Actually if we're removing "Step 1: Create a slack App", gotta remove this one too for parallelism

To set up an alert integration with PagerDuty, you need access to your organization's PagerDuty Service. PagerDuty uses the [Events API v2](https://developer.pagerduty.com/docs/ZG9jOjExMDI5NTgw-events-api-v2-overview#getting-started) to create a new integration that connects your Service with the Astro pipeline alerts.

1. Open your PagerDuty service.

2. On the **Integrations** tab, click **Add an integration**.

> 3. Select **Events API v2** as the Integration Type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Events API v2** as the **Integration Type**.
```

4. On your **Integrations** page, open your new integration and enter an **Integration Name**.

5. Copy the **Integration Key** for your new Astro alert integration.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## Step 2: Create your workspace alert in the Cloud UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Create your workspace alert in the Cloud UI
```

In the Cloud UI, you can enable alerts from the **Workspace Settings** page. 

> 1. Open the [Cloud U](https://cloud.astronomer.io) and choose the Astro workspace you want to create an alert for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, select the Astro workspace you want to create an alert for.
```

> 2. Choose **Workspace Settings** and then **Alerts**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Workspace Settings**, then click **Alerts**.
```

3. Click **Add Alert**. 

4. Enter your **Alert Name** and choose the alert type, either **Pipeline Failure** or **Task Duration**. 

> 5. Choose the Communication Channel where you want to send your alert. You can choose to send alerts to both Slack and PagerDuty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Choose the **Communication Channel** where you want to send your alert. You can choose to send alerts to both Slack and PagerDuty.
```

6. Add your communication channel information.

> <Tabs>
> <TabItem value="slack">
> 
> Paste the Webhook URL from your Slack workspace app. 
> 
>     - If you need to find a URL for an app you've already created, go to your [Slack Apps](https://api.slack.com/apps) page, select your app, and then choose the **Incoming Webhooks** page. 
> 
> </TabItem>
> <TabItem value="pagerduty">
> 
> Paste the Integration Key from your PagerDuty Integration and select the **Severity** of the alert.
> 
> </TabItem>
> </Tabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Tabs>
    <TabItem value="slack">

    Paste the Webhook URL from your Slack workspace app. If you need to find a URL for an app you've already created, go to your [Slack Apps](https://api.slack.com/apps) page, select your app, and then choose the **Incoming Webhooks** page. 

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="pagerduty">

    Paste the Integration Key from your PagerDuty Integration and select the **Severity** of the alert.

    </TabItem>
    </Tabs>
```

7. Add Pipelines or Tasks to your alert.

>     - **Pipeline failure**: Click **Pipeline** to choose the Deployment and Pipeline that you want to send an alert about if it fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Pipeline failure**: Click **Pipeline** to choose the Pipeline, that you want to send an alert about if it fails. A Pipeline is another word for an Airflow DAG.
```
Ugh I hate this but I have no better way to explain this terminology mishmash in the UI.. happy to try an alternative!

>     - **Task duration**: Click **Task** and choose the Deployment, Pipeline, and Task Name. Enter the **Duration** after which you want to send an alert to your communication channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Task duration**: Click **Task** and choose the Deployment, Pipeline, and task name. Enter the **Duration** for how long a task should take to run before you send an alert to your communication channels.
```

>     You can add more Pipelines or Tasks after you create your alert. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can add more Pipelines or tasks after you create your alert. 
```
